add blog about ed25519 keypairs and openssl (#166)
pyrsia/pyrsia.github.io: blog/2023-02-01-rust-ed25519-key-pairs.md

---

> title: Openssl and Rust ED25519 Key Pairs

Reviewer: I guess there are other ed25519 providers in Rust. Maybe libp2p rust or ed25519_dalek are more accurate

authors:
- name: Steve Taylor
  title: Pyrsia Contributor
  image_url: https://github.com/sbtaylor15.png
tags: [rust, openssl, ed25519, keypair]
---

The ED25519 crate (libp2p::identity) can generate and load key pairs.  These key pairs are 64 bytes long.
First 32 bytes are the private key and last 32 bytes the public key.

Openssl generates the ED25519 key pairs with a header in front of the public and private keys.

> As result, the Openssl keys pairs and Rust key pairs are not interchangable.  Therefor, if you want to use

Reviewer: typo
```suggestion
As a result, the Openssl keys pairs and Rust key pairs are not interchangeable. Therefor, if you want to use
```

a key pair generated by openssl with Rust then it must be converted.  Conversion is also needed to go from
Rust to openssl.

Below are the steps needed to convert key pairs from one format to another.

## Generate a Key Pair

```rust
let keypair = identity::ed25519::Keypair::generate();
```

> ## Load a Key Pair

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Load Openssl generated Key Pair in Rust Object
```

```rust
let mut keypair_file = fs::File::open("ed25519.ser")?;
let mut buffer = vec![0; 64];  // buffer containing the key pair from disk
keypair_file.read_exact(&mut buffer)?; // read the file into the buffer
let keypair = identity::ed25519::Keypair::decode(&mut buffer); // decode the buffer into a Keypair object

> ```

Reviewer 2: Should this block to be moved at line 70 i.e. just after the ed25519.ser file generated through openssl and some post processing for a better sequence?
